# 2014 Summer  
## Problem 1
### 1.  
[1,2,3]$\Leftrightarrow$[3,2,1]$\Leftrightarrow$[2,3,1]$\Leftrightarrow$[1,3,2]$\Leftrightarrow$[3,1,2]$\Leftrightarrow$[2,1,3]$\Leftrightarrow$[1,2,3]
### 2.
from [A,B,C] to [1,2,3]   
from 1. it's known that max steps = 3.
[1,3,2] or [3,1,2]

### 3.   12

### 4.  
while (state is not target_state):
    



## Problem 2
1. $p(0) = (1-\lambda)^3$   
    $p(1) = \lambda(1-\lambda)^2$  
    $p(2) = \lambda^2(1-\lambda)$  
    $p(3) = \lambda^3$  
    $\mathbf{E}[p] = \lambda(1-\lambda)^2 + 2\lambda^2(1-\lambda) + 3\lambda^3$

2.  Transition Matrix $P$:  
    Current stage (y)  
    Next stage (x)
    |s|0|1|2|3|
    |-|-|-|-|-|
    |0|$(1-\lambda)^3$|$\lambda(1-\lambda)^2$|$\lambda^2(1-\lambda)$|$\lambda^3$|
    |1|$(1-\lambda)^3$|$\lambda(1-\lambda)^2$|$\lambda^2(1-\lambda)$|$\lambda^3$|
    |2|0|$(1-\lambda)^3$|$\lambda(1-\lambda)^2$|$\lambda^2$|
    |3|0|0|$(1-\lambda)^3$|$\lambda+ \lambda^2 - \lambda^3$|

3. Let probability of having $s$ packets in the buffer to be $q(s)$, and $\sum_{i=0}^{3}q(i) = 1$.  
Expected value $\mathbf{E}[q] = \sum_{i=0}^{3}iq(i)$.   
According to Markov chain, $q(i)$ is independent of that of the initial state of buffer $s_0$. Therefore, with the help of transition matric $P$, $lim_{i\rightarrow\infty} P^i$ will converge to a matrix with each row $i$ representing $q(i)$.  
4. Let probability of packet drop when the buffer has $s$ packet already be $d(s)$.  
$d(0) = d(1) = 0$  
$d(2) = \lambda^3$  
$d(2) = \lambda^2$  
Total packet drop rate $D = q(2)d(2) + q(3)d(3)$

 
## Problem 3  
1. Time of flight sensor uses a projector and a light sensor for measurement. Since light 


## Problem 4
1. __Superscalar__ is an architecture of CPU which at core (see what I did there), parallelize execution of intructions by distributing independent instructions to different cores within the same CPU, in another words, an n-issue superscalar, n instructions are fetected, decoded, executred and committed in each cycle. However, in practice there are many problems that prevents superscalar from performaning ideally as stated above. For examples, there are data hazards, control hazard, and structural hazards.

2. __Cross site scripting__ is an attack which the victim executes code from malicious source which pretend to be 'trusted'. There are two main types of XSS, stored XSS and reflected XSS. Stored XSS refers to attack which the malicious script is stored in the server side, usually by injecting malicious code through web application vulnerbility. The attack affects the victim when the victim tries to retrieve information from the website, the macilious script is executed as if it is from the "trusted" source. The other main type of XSS, reflected XSS 'reflects' the user from the website to some other external tools


3. __Just in time compiler__ blends traditional compile in advance approach and interepting, to compile program right before execution (just in time). It allows the system to optimize the code to the system to provide better performance. 

4. __Strain Gauge__  
    is a sensor for detecting stretch. It is usually a conductive circuit, which somehow reassemble onboard wireless adaptor. At the two terminals of the sensor, a measuring device detects the