# 2015

## Q4  
1. Kinematic and Inverse Kinematic are 2 studies that handles the movement of object. Kinematic, on one hand, handles the effect of force applied on object and how it changes the movement of it, such as if we push a cart with a constant force F, how fast would it go if we do it for 15 metres. Inverse Kinematic (IK) however, tries to reverse the process that lead to a certain situation. For example, IK is used for animating 3D characters. A classical example in such case is given a hand pose, we want to find the joint angle (as joint length is not variable in most cases)  
2. Force control for robot is usually implemented as a program in microcontroller. In particular, it is  
3. Invariant feature are features that are invariant to some condition change. One of the most popular image feature, named SIFT, stands for Scale invariant feature transform. SIFT, as the name suggests, is invariant to scale. Therefore, given an image $I$ and its enlarged version $I'$, SIFT transform should output the same set of feature.  
4. Backpropagation is the foundation of deep learning. Mostly used together with stoachic gradient desent (SGD), backpropagation computes the gradient of parameters $\theta$ w.r.t a loss function. It does so with chain rule, which states that gradient of a parameter w.r.t. the loss function should dependent to all other parameters that takes output of $\theta$ as input. Using this method, as long as all the intemediate operations are differentiable, we are able to compute the gradient of parameters. Backpropagation allows us to optimize thousands of millions of parameters at the same time.  
5. Autocorrelation function and power spectrum, Autocorrelation is the convolution of a function with itself. Power spectrum describe the power of a signal at different frequency.
6. 